Anaquin - Sequin Statistical Analysis
Version: 1.0, Dr Tim Merchy, Dr Wendy Chen, Ted Wong

  General options
 
       -t
              Execute a series of internal tests and reports for any inconsistency.

       -h
              Print a help message and exit.

       -v
              Display version information.

       -d  –-verbose
              Print status updates and diagnostic information.


  Analysis options

       Usage:   anaquin <command> [options]

       Command: rna    data-analysis for RNA samples
                dna    data-analysis for DNA samples
                meta   data-analysis for metagenomics samples

  RNA options

        Usage: anaquin rna <sequins-file> <arguments> <input-file>

        -l
              Print the default reference sequins-file (if not supplied by user)

        -se  --sequencing
              Assess sequencing performance including systematic sequencing errors and quality. Requires
              SAM/BAM input file generated by programs such as BowTie, Tophat etc.

        -al  --align
              Alignment performance. Requires SAM/BAM input file generated by programs such as BowTie,
              Tophat etc. Reports sensitivity and specificity of total and split reads, limit of
              sensitivity (used in conjunction with -limitofsenstivity).
    
        -as   --assembly
              Full-length transcript assembly performance. Requires GTF or BED input file generated by
              programs such as Cufflinks, StringTie, Trinity etc. Reports output like cuffcompare. Also
              reports limit of assembly.

        -ab  --abundance
              Gene and isoform quantification. Requires FPKM_TRACKING file generated by programs such
              as Cufflinks and Cuffcompare. Can be either genes.fpkm_tracking or isoforms.fpkm_tracking.
              Reports correlation, slope, limit of sensitivity and data file for import into R.

        -df  --differential
              Differential gene and isofrom expression. Requires DIFF file generated by programs such
              as Cufflinks, Cuffdiff etc. gene_exp.diff or isofom_exp.diff. Requires use of two or
              more mixtures. Reports correlation, slope, residuals, limit of sensitvity and data file
              for import into R.
              
        -o <directory>
              All output files will be saved in the directory. If not provided the default will be name
              of the input-file.
              
        -p   --num-threads
              Use this many threads for processing. The default is 1.

        -r   —-restrict <file> 
              Restrict analysis to sequeins specified in test file with list (one per line) of identifiers
              to be analysed. Please note that identifiers in text file must match identifiers in
              <sequins.(gtf/bed)>. Can be used for alignment, assembly, abundance and differential.

        —-min <FPKM>
              Analyse sequins only with expression (in FPKM) higher than this value. Can be used with -max
              to specific range of expression values. Can be used for assembly, abundance, and differential.

        —-max <FPKM>
              Analyse sequins only with expression (in FPKM) lower than this value. Can be used with -max
              to specific range of expression values. Can be used for assembly, abundance, and differential.

        —-los <FPKM>
              This will restrict analysis to sequins with expression (in FPKM) higher than calculated limit
              of sensitivity. Analyse only sequins detected. This will ignore sequins not detected in
              alignment file from analysis.


        Input files
        -----------
        
          .SAM/.BAM               A file of RNA-Seq read alignments in the SAM alignments format, or a binary
                                  SAM (BAM) file as input. For more details on the SAM format, see the
                                  specification (http://samtools.github.io/).

          sequins (.GTF)          Reference file of sequin gene coordinates on the in silico chromosome and
                                  relative abundance according to mixture used.

          assembly (.GTF/.BED)    A file of transcripts in GTF or BED format that was assembled from RNA-Seq
                                  read alignments.
                                  
          abundance (.CXB)        A file containing transcript abundances in tab-delimited test format. 
                                  gene.fpkm_tracking   Tab-delimited text file containing transcript
                                  coordinates and expression (in FPKM) from Cufflinks.

          isoform.fpkm_tracking   Tab-delimited text file containing transcript coordinates and expression
                                  (in FPKM) from Cufflinks.

          gene_exp.diff        A file containing transcript coordinates and expression (in FPKM) from Cufflinks.
          isoform_exp.diff     A file containing transcript coordinates and expression (in FPKM) from Cufflinks.

