RnaQuin Analysis                     Anaquin Manual                    

NAME
     RnaAlign - Measure the spliced read alignments from sequins to the in silico chromosome

DESCRIPTION
     RnaAlign calculates several useful statistics from an alignment file, including:

       Dilution – Fraction of reads that align to the in silico chromosome relative to the accompanying reference genome. 

       Sensitivity - Fraction of annotated nucleotides, exons or introns that are detected by the alignments.
                     For example, if 7 of 10 introns in a gene loci are detected, sensitivity equals 0.7.

       Precision – The fraction of correctly detected nucleotides or introns relative to the total nucleotides or introns.
                   This indicates the accuracy of alignments. For example, if 10 introns are identified in an experiment,
                   but 4 are erroneous, precision equals 0.6.

       These statistics are calculated at a nucleotide, exon and intron level. A further description of diagnostic
       statistics statistics is provided in the Anaquin user guide.

BIOINFORMATICS SOFTWARE
     Spliced-read aligner that generates a SAM/BAM alignment file. Common examples include TopHat2 and STAR.

INPUTS
     Reference transcriptome annotation file in GTF format
     Generated alignment file in SAM/BAM format

USAGE EXAMPLE
     anaquin RnaAlign –rbed reference.bed –ufiles aligned.bam

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
     The runtime is linearly proportional to the number of reads in the input file, with long run times expected for
     large alignment files.

TOOL OPTIONS
     Required:
        -rgtf        Reference transcriptome annotation file in GTF format
        -ufiles      Generated alignment files in SAM/BAM format

     Optional:
        -o = output  Directory in which the output files are written to

OUTPUTS
     RnaAlign_summary.stats - useful statistics to describe to describe the global alignment profile. Field definitions:

        Input alignment file       Input sample alignment file in SAM/BAM format
        Reference annotation file  User generated sample alignments in SAM/BAM format
        Synthetic                  Number of alignments mapped to the in silico chromosome
        Genome                     Number of alignments mapped to the human genome		
        Dilution                   Proportion of alignments mapped to the in silico chromosome
        Reference annotation       Number of exons, introns and bases on the in silico chromosome and the genome
        Non-spliced                Number of non-spliced reads on the in silico chromosome and the genome
        Spliced                    Number of spliced reads for on the in silico chromosome and the genome
        Total                      Spliced + Non-spliced
        Sensitivity                Sensitivity of the alignments at levels: exon, intron and base (in silico chromosome and genome)
        Precision                  Precision of the alignments at levels: intron and base (in silico chromosome and genome)

     RnaAlign_sequins.csv - gives detailed statistics for each individual sequin gene. Field definitions:
        ID                         Name of the sequin
        Length                     Length of the sequin
        Reads                      Number of reads aligned
        SnIntron                   Sensitivity at the intron level 
        SnBase                     Sensitivity at the base level 

EXAMPLE SUMMARY STATISTICS

    -------RnaAlign Summary Statistics

           Input alignment file: A1/accepted_hits.bam
           Reference annotation file: combined.gtf

    -------Number of alignments mapped to the synthetic chromosome and human genome

           Synthetic: 36552138
           Genome:    11493036
           Dilution:  0.76

    -------Reference annotation (Synthetic)

           Synthetic: 869 exons
           Synthetic: 754 introns
           Synthetic: 5490967 bases

    -------Reference annotation (Genome)

           Genome: 570980 exons
           Genome: 347657 introns
           Genome: 1758049931 bases

    -------Alignments (Synthetic)

           Non-spliced: 20575711
           Spliced:     15976427

    -------Alignments (Genome)

           Non-spliced: 8611159
           Spliced:     1754969

    -------Comparison of alignments to reference annotation (Synthetic)

           *Intron level
            Sensitivity: 0.99
            Precision:   0.70

           *Base level
            Sensitivity: 0.99
            Precision:   0.98

    -------Comparison of alignments to reference annotation (Genome)

           *Intron level
            Sensitivity: 0.29
            Precision:   0.90

           *Base level
            Sensitivity: 0.31
            Precision:   0.30