RnaQuin Analysis                     Anaquin Manual                    

NAME
	 RnaAssembly -- Measures the read alignment from sequins to the in silico chromosome.

DESCRIPTION
	 RnaAssembly calculates several useful statistics from an alignment file.

	   Dilution – the fraction of reads that align to the in silico chromosome relative to the accompanying reference genome. 

       Sensitivity - the fraction of annotated regions covered by alignments. For example, a sequin of length 1000nt, of which 500nt have reads aligned, would
	                 have a sensitivity of 0.5. Please note that terminal flanking regions (up to 200nt) should be trimmed to omit edge effects from sequencing.

       Precision –- The fraction annotated regions that are covered by alignments, relative to total regions of alignments. This indicates the accuracy of alignments.
	   				For example, if 1000nt of alignments overlap with only 500nt annotated regions, this will have a specificity of 0.5.

BIOINFORMATICS SOFTWARE
	 Short-read aligner that generates a SAM/BAM alignment file, including popular examples such as BWA and Bowtie.

INPUTS
	 Reference annotation file in BED format
	 Generated alignment file in SAM/BAM format
	 
USAGE EXAMPLE
	 anaquin RnaAssembly –rbed reference.bed –ufiles aligned.bam

TOOL OPTIONS
	 Required:
	 	-rbed        Reference VarQuin annotation file in BED format
		-ufiles      Generated alignment files in SAM/BAM format

	 Optional:
		-o = output	 Directory in which the output files are written to

OUTPUTS
	 VarAlign_summary.stats - gives the summary statistics. Field definitions:

	 	Reference annotation file	Reference annotation file in BED format 
		User alignment file         User generated sample alignments in SAM/BAM format
		Synthetic				    Number of alignments mapped to the in-silico genome
		Genome					    Number of alignments mapped to the human genome
		Dilution					Proportion of alignments mapped to the in-silico chromosome
		Covered						Number of nucleotide bases with alignments
		Uncovered					Number of nucleotide bases without alignments
		Total						Covered + Uncovered
		Sensitivity					Sensitivity of the alignments for the in-silico genome and the human genome
		Precision					Precision of the alignments for the in-silico genome and the human genome

	 VarAlign_sequins.csv - gives detailed statistics for each sequin. Field definitions:
	    ID						    Name of the sequin
		Length						Length of the sequin
		Reads						Number of reads aligned
		Sn							Base-level sensitivity of alignments 
		Pc							Base-level precision of alignments

EXAMPLE OUTPUT
