RnaQuin Analysis                     Anaquin Manual                    

NAME
     RnaSubsample - Calibrate the sequence coverage of sequins across multiple replicates

DESCRIPTION
     RnaSubsample enables calibration of sequin coverage across multiple RNA-Seq replicates. The tool is useful to ensure
     the sequencing depth comparable across different libraries.

     For example, if we have two technical libraries, and they have the following characteristics:
        * Library A with 2 million reads on the in silico chromosome
        * Library B with 1 million reads on the in silico chromosome

    Obviously library A has higher sequencing depth than library B, and would create bias in the statistical results.
    For example, most differential analysis package models gene dispersions. The estimation might be inaccurate unless
    the sequins are comparable across the replicates.

    Users need to specify preferred dilution fraction, typically, we recommend 1% to 10%. Further details are discussed in
    Section 5.4.3.

    Firstly, this tool calculates the number of alignments on the in silico chromosome and genome. This is
    reported as “Before subsampling” in the summary statistics. Next, it uses the specified fraction to deduce how much
    the reads on the in silico chromosome should be subsampled and is reported as “After subsampling” in the summary
    statistics.

BIOINFORMATICS SOFTWARE
     Any short-reads spliced aligner that generates SAM/BAM outputs. Common examples include TopHat2 and STAR.

INPUTS
     User generated SAM/BAM alignment file

USAGE EXAMPLE
     anaquin RnaSubsample -method 0.01 –ufiles alignment.bam

TOOL OPTIONS
     Required:
        -method      Dilution factor as a floating number. For example, 0.01 is 1% and 0.10 is 10% etc.
        -ufiles      User generated SAM/BAM alignment file

     Optional:
        -o = output  Directory in which the output files are written to

OUTPUTS
     RnaSubsample_summary.stats - reports summary statistics for the subsampling. Field definitions:

        User generated alignment  User generated alignment file in SAM/BAM format
        Synthetic (Before)        Number of alignments mapped to the in silico chromosome before subsampling
        Genome (Before)           Number of alignments not mapped to the in silico chromosome before subsampling      
        Dilution (Before)         Synthetic (Before) / (Synthetic (Before) + Genome (Before))
        User Dilution             User specified dilution (specified by -method)
        Normalization             Calculated normalization factors applied in subsampling in silico alignments 
        Synthetic (After)         Number of alignments mapped to the in silico chromosome after subsampling
        Genome (After)            Number of alignments not mapped to the in silico chromosome after subsampling      
        Dilution (After)          Synthetic (After) / (Synthetic (After) + Genome (After))

EXAMPLE SUMMARY STATISTICS

    -------RnaSubsample Summary Statistics

           User generated alignment: RnaSubsample_summary.stats

    -------User alignments (before subsampling)

           Synthetic: 36552138 reads
           Genome:    11493036 reads
           Dilution:  0.760787

           * Fraction of spike-ins specified:
           Fraction: 0.050000

           * Normalization applied in subsampling:
           Normalization: 0.0165489

    -------User alignments (after subsampling)

           Synthetic: 603687 reads
           Genome:    11493036 reads
           Dilution:  0.049905
