VarQuin Analysis                     Anaquin Manual                    

NAME
	 VarDiscover -- Assesses the identification of variants from alignments to the in-silico chromosome.

DESCRIPTION
	VarDiscover can be used for analyzing the identification of variants on the in-silico chromosome, and provides several useful statistics
	to describe the identification of variants, including:

	  Sensitivity - the fraction of annotated synthetic variants that are identified within the library. For example, if only 7, of 10 known variants
	  				are detected, the sensitivity will equal 0.7. 
					 
	  Precision   – the fraction of correctly identified (or true positive) variants. This provides a measure of identification accuracy. For example,
	  				if 10 variants are identified, but 4 do not exist (and were mistakenly identified from sequencing errors) we would have a precision of 0.6.

	  Specificity – the fraction of correctly identified (or true negative) variants. This provides a measure of statistical power, typically by the p-value.
	  				For example, if 10 variants are statistically rejected, but 5 are true-positive, we would have a specificity of 0.5.

	VarDiscover can also be used to assess the diagnostic performance for variant identification with receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and area
	under the curve (AUC).

BIOINFORMATICS SOFTWARE
	VarDiscover takes the standard VCF file that is provided by popular variant identification software, such as GATK. VarDiscover also supports output files
	by other softwares by conversion.

INPUTS
	Reference coordinate annotation file in BED format
	Reference variant file in VCF format
	Reference VarQuin mixture file in CSV format
	Generated variant file in VCF or text format

	Details on the text format can be found in the user manual on www.sequin.xyz.

USAGE EXAMPLE
	 anaquin –t VarDiscover –rbed reference.bed –rvcf reference.vcf –m mixture.csv –ufiles variants.vcf

TOOL OPTIONS
	 Required:
	 	-rbed        Reference coordinate annotation file in BED format
		-rvcf        Reference variant annotation file in VCF format
		-m			 Reference VarQuin mixture file in CSV format
		-ufiles      Generated variants in VCF format

	 Optional:
		-o = output	 Directory in which the output files are written to

OUTPUTS
	 VarDiscover_summary.stats - gives the summary statistics. Field definitions:

	 	Reference sequin regions		Reference annotation file in BED format 
		Reference variant annotations   Reference variant file in VCF format
		User identified variants		User generated variant file in VCF or text format
		Synthetic					    Number of variants (SNV/indel/both) in the synthetic annotation
		Genome							Number of variants (SNV/indel/both) in the genomic annotation
		Detected						Number of variants (SNV/indel/both) detected in the synthetic annotation
		True Positive					Number of true-positives for variants (SNV/indel/both)
		False Positive					Number of false-positives for variants (SNV/indel/both)
		True Negative					Number of true-negatives for variants (SNV/indel/both)
		False Negative					Number of false-negatives for variants (SNV/indel/both)
		Sensitivity						TP / (TP+FN)
		Specificity						TN / (FP+TN)
		Precision						TP / (TP+FP)
		FDR Rate						FP / (TP+FP)

	 VarDiscover_sequins.csv - gives detailed statistics for each sequin. Field definitions:
	    ID						        Name of the sequin
		Pos								Position of the variant
		Label							Whether it’s true-positive (TP), false-positive (TP), true-negative (TN) or false-negative (FN)
		Pval							P-value probability 
		ReadR							Number of reads supporting the reference allele
		ReadV							Number of reads supporting the variant allele
		Depth							Depth coverage. For example, the DP field in VCF file
		EFrac							Expected allele fraction
		EFreq							Expected allele frequency
		MFreq							Measured allele frequency
		Type							Whether this is an SNP or an Indel

	VarDiscover_ROC.R – R-script that plots a ROC curve and report AUC statistics. See Appendix B.1 for further details and example.

	VarDiscover_LOD.R - generates a limit-of-detection (LOD) plot in R. Only generated if p-values are given.

EXAMPLE OUTPUT

