VarQuin Analysis                     Anaquin Manual                    

NAME
     VarSubsample - Calibrate sequence coverage of sequins to accompanying human genome

DESCRIPTION
    Alignment subsampling is a simple and effective method for calibrating the sequence coverage of sequins to accompanying
    diploid human genome. This tool calculates the sequence coverage for the genomic regions and use that to perform
    calibration on the reads aligned to the in silico chromosome.

BIOINFORMATICS SOFTWARE
     Short-read aligner that generates a SAM/BAM file, including Bowtie and BWA.

INPUTS
     Reference annotation file in BED format
     Generated alignment file in SAM/BAM format
     
USAGE EXAMPLE
     anaquin VarSubsample –rbed reference.bed –meth mean –ufiles aligned.bam

TOOL OPTIONS
     Required:
        -rbed           Reference VarQuin annotation file in BED format
        -method = mean  Algorithm used for subsampling. Possible values include mean, median, raw, x.
                          mean    sequencing coverage calculated by taking arithmetic average.
                          median  sequencing coverage calculated by taking median.
                          reads   sequencing coverage calculated by number of reads
                          x       where x is the fraction of reads aligned to chrIS to subsample. For example,
                                  0.01 is 1%, 0.10 is 10% etc.      
        -ufiles      Generated alignment files in SAM/BAM format

     Optional:
        -o = output  Directory in which the output files are written to

OUTPUTS
     VarSubsample_summary.stats gives the summary statistics. Field definitions:

     Reference annotation file          Reference coordinate annotation file in BED format
     User alignment file                User generated alignment file in SAM/BAM format
     Reference regions                  Number of regions on the in silico chromosome and genome in the reference annotation file
     Method                             Method used in subsampling
     Total alignments (Before)          Total alignments on the in silico chromosome and genome before subsampling
     Total alignments (After)           Total alignments on the in silico chromosome and genome after subsampling    
     Alignments within regions (Before) Total alignments on the in silico regions and genomic regions before subsampling
     Alignments within regions (After)  Total alignments on the in silico regions and genomic regions after subsampling
     Normalization                      Normalization factor applied in subsampling
     Coverage (Before)                  Coverage on the in silico regions and genomic regions before subsampling
     Coverage (After)                   Coverage on the in silico regions and genomic regions after subsampling

EXAMPLE OUTPUT

    -------VarSubsample Summary Statistics

        Reference annotation file: sampled.bed
        User alignment file: sorted.bam

    -------Reference regions

        Synthetic regions: 36
        Genomic regions:   36

        Method: Mean

    -------Total alignments (before subsampling)

        Synthetic: 36168285
        Genome:    423028646

    -------Total alignments (after subsampling)

        Synthetic: 45609
        Genome:    423028646

    -------Alignments within sampling regions (before subsampling)

        Synthetic: 36121654
        Genome:    4234

    -------Alignments within sampling regions (after subsampling)

        Synthetic: 45002
        Genome:    4234

        Normalization: 0.000136642

    -------Before subsampling (within sampling regions)

        Synthetic coverage: 85009.7
        Genome coverage:    11.6159

    -------After subsampling (within sampling regions)

        Synthetic coverage: 11.5982
        Genome coverage:    11.6159
